# kickstarter-analysis
## Overview and Purpose 
Our client Louise was creating a play that required funds, she came to us asking for help in order to make sure her project was successfully funded through Kickstarter while also looking at other projects to see how they did in comparison to her own. To do this, we used the Kickstarter data on excel that contained the relevant data for us to work with. 
### Analysis
After retrieving the data set the first thing was to filter out the projects that were irrelevant to Louise and her project and then using formulas getting the descriptive stats (Mean, Mode, Median, Standard Deviation, the Upper and Lower Quartile, and the IQR) with the focus was mainly on the theater and plays category and subcategory. As our goal was to help compare with the amount asked for a project, when that project was announced on Kickstarter and what the ultimate out come were, those areas were the ones we focused on. For theater outcomes vs their launch date, a pivot table and chart were used to help separate and visualize their launch date and their outcomes. While for comparing outcomes based on goal, we had to use counting formula to see the number of outcomes based on their goal ranges then create and line graph to visualize the data.
### Challenges
Before starting, a potential challenge that could of appeared was the appearance of outliers in the goal column, either projects were asking for too much which was a possibilities in the Theater and plays section or the projects had a goal under $1, this while unlikely in the Theater and plays section, was seen in the overall data set as some projects while still asking for money were mainly doing it for publicity and as such could have swayed the seeing how easy it was for them to have a “successful” outcome while not being helpful to us. Filtering the data set to just plays helped remove the projects with really low goals while also making the data set size more reasonable, and getting the descriptive stats help with the outliers.
### Results
While looking at the Outcomes Based on Launch Date Chart, we were able to concluded that the best time to start a project would be in May or June, while the worst time would be in October November, or December even though there are less play to compete against. Looking at the Outcomes based on Goals chart one can conclude that the best goals to have would be less than $1500. Realistically speaking, these conclusions make sense as plays can be outdoor and indoor in the summer so places to view them and in May and June schools are finishing up so people have more free time to enjoy activities such as plays and therefore will pay for them while in October, November and December, people are going to be spending more money on the holidays while also more likely to stay inside. Lastly, it is far easier to reach a goal that’s less that $1500 than over that while being more realistic to a common fan who is more likely to believe that a play can be funded for a smaller amount and therefore are less likely to spend money on plays that they might think are asking for too much.
However, there are some limitations in this data set, one that can be easily seen is that while looking at the Outcomes based on Goals Chart, the father up you go in range the smaller the sample sizes, you would expect that a goal between $35000-$45000 would be more likely to succeed looking at the chart but the reality is that the sample size that we have for them are too small, according to the data 67%  of either goal range would succeed but combined there are only 9 plays in total while each of the first three goal ranges have over 160 goals each with the range of $1000-$4999 having 533 plays alone so we cannot make a fair judgement on them. 
Lastly, if Louise were to ask for more assistance to visualize the data, we could make both of the charts into stacked bar charts and the Outcomes Based on Goals Chart can also become multiple pie charts for each range having its own chart as it is calculated by percentages and finally we could show her the Box chart for any outlier and the see the descriptive stats.
